who the men and women of the CIA are the
eyes and ears of the free world you are
the tripwire CIA state-sponsored
terrorism you don't look at people as
human beings they're they're nothing but
pieces on the chest no secrecy in this
work is essential achievements and
clowns can seldom be advertised
shortcomings and failures no one really
knows all the things that CIA does
they'd pretty much have carte wash and
they have an enormous amount of money
you know maybe I'm overly naive but I
don't see what would be wrong with that
we need more intelligence not less we
must not diminish our intelligence the
CIA is not really an intelligence agency
it's a covert action agency the CIA has
been involved in assassination and
torture behind the scenes all through
its history cold war is over but many
dangers have taken its place the
decisive advantage United States
intelligence provides this country is
therefore as important as it has ever
been
in December 1941 the attack on Pearl
Harbor sinks the Pacific Fleet military
intelligence is in shambles the dawn
attack becomes the crucible on which the
modern spy culture is born into the
breach stepped a new generation of
American soldiers the spies and covert
warriors of the Office of Strategic
Services they battled the Japanese and
Germans behind the lines in an
underworld of sabotage and psychological
warfare they trained and fought with
local guerrillas and unknown jungles
with only one guiding command don't get
caught
I want to talk to you again I have a
more astonishing tale to tell almost
incredible shrouded in the mystery of
oriental ways mysterious sinister leave
a little Lin from Japan it was a simpler
time when the nation's enemies were
cleared Washington and Hollywood swept
in dimension inventing the popular
culture that has surrounded espionage
for a half a century why the mystery the
adventure the romance
[Music]
the simple stereotypes of the enemy whoa
hi pockets in the fearless hero you guys
have been looking for a war how did you
that's right Rick that's why we're
starting it you might start at Joe but
we'll finish it
we had hoped that our wartime Ally the
Soviet Union would join in the efforts
of the whole community of nations to
build a peaceful world instead the
rulers of the Soviet Union have sought
to extend the boundaries of their
totalitarian control the battlefields of
a new cold war seemed uniquely suited to
the skills of spies and secret agents
President Truman pledged that the United
States would never be caught by surprise
again the Central Intelligence Agency
was born it was considered the Cadillac
of government agencies and they mostly
hired from I believe colleges the cost
of freedom is always high but Americans
have always paid it and one path we
shall never choose and that is the path
of surrender or submission the public
embraced the cloak of secrecy that the
CIA wrapped around itself the government
didn't know I was working for the
government they told me not to tell
anyone not even my mother I couldn't
tell my children my wife didn't even
know what I was doing who were these
agents and what were they doing in
Guatemala and Iran how did patriotic
Americans from Main Street neighborhoods
get caught up in the overthrow of
foreign governments what were they doing
in places like Ecuador and Vietnam where
the CIA organized torture and
assassination these are the stories of
former agents who dared to break away
from the CIA that was so disillusioned
about my country because I believed it
was like my country right or wrong but
my country was wrong so much of the time
I've lost my first-class citizenship
I've lost the respect probably of a lot
of friends I've gained a lot of enemies
I think CIA ex-members somewhat like
myself who leave a teller stories are
it's a very painful process but I think
there are feeling that they're doing a a
higher duty if you will they're not just
quitting and leaving and being quiet
they're quitting and you expressing
their conscience here is something that
we've done that is terrible and here's
something that must be stopped I played
four years of football at the University
of Notre Dame and we were undefeated for
all four years three national champions
that is the pristine right tackle so
once when I was cut from the Green Bay
Packers I was recruited by the agency
and I kind of wondered why they
recruited me but when I got to the aidan
got down to Washington I found out that
most of those in my class were rejects
from the National Football League
I went to an interview at the Chicago
courthouse by a man who didn't identify
himself or the agency that he was
recruiting for and he said that the what
I would be doing would be involved in
fighting communism 800 million people
one third of mankind exist under
communist tyranny without the god-given
rights of freedom and human dignity of
course at that particular period in 1952
this was this is so much a part of our
everyday life and I said yes I'd very
much wanted to be a part of it very
proud to be a part of my career in the
agency began in 1952 and I stayed in the
agency through 1977 in the entire 25
years I was in the Director of
Operations or also known as the dirty
tricks department my second tour in
Thailand was probably the most important
where I was assigned to work for the
provincial police which is a 50 thousand
yen national police force in developing
an aura an effort to counter the growing
insurgency and to gather intelligence on
that insurgency and the program there
was to interview or interrogate everyone
in the village over the age of say 12
and in the process we found out that the
Thai Communist Party was a much larger
much more active much more effective
dinner had ever been reported before my
initial reports received glowing
commendations from everyone
and then all of a sudden the program was
shut down and I was sent home and I
couldn't understand this I know now why
they didn't want this information to be
reported because if they acknowledge
that the commies party in Thailand
consisted of thousands of organized
villagers then they would have to have
told the same truths about the move
economist movement in Vietnam when the
strength there of the chemists movement
was in the millions and if we had ever
admitted that there would been only one
solution to what was going on in Vietnam
is to shut down the war and come home we
could not win men of a hundred and first
Airborne Division land in Kamran Bey
intelligence on Vietnam was doctored to
support the ongoing or there and I could
see that the situation in doctrine
intelligence was universal now these
reinforcements head for where the action
is supposed to be for according to
current policy the emphasis is to be on
direct combat rather than on advisory
duty
wherever the agency had a covert action
role or a policy role to implement its
intelligence was distorted shaped
created to support that policy it was in
many many cases there was nothing but
fiction
[Music]
I think the worst thing I was involved
in was the Phoenix operation in Vietnam
a countrywide assassination program I
was part of it this was a program
started by the CIA funded by the CIA
recruiting people for the operation
training them to go out and kill or
capture into Viet Cong I came to realize
later that we were shooting fish in a
barrel
that most of the Vietnamese supported
the other side and we were the intruders
and the Vietnamese were fighting for
their own liberation from foreign
domination
[Music]
I went out to Vietnam to help save
Vietnam for democracy and when I saw
photographs of the children bombed and
they bombed and burned by operations
this cause for me a tremendous trauma
and I for a number of months
contemplated suicide is my only out this
this of course would never I finally got
over that effort and thought well what I
should do with my knowledge is try to
bring this knowledge to the American
people so that that there won't be
further Vietnam so it won't be further
abuses and since that time I've
dedicated my life to exposing the agency
that the CIA called him an analyst with
few peers upon leaving the CIA this man
wrote a book about it called deadly
disease and now he has compiled a
one-of-a-kind database resource on the
subject called CIA base please a big
welcome for Ralph McGehee
I feel that I am doing what I should be
doing in that since I'm happy I am not
happy in a sense that no amount of
criticism of the agency no amount of
revelation of his dirty deeds no amount
of exposure of the weaknesses of the
agency has weakened the CIA but I do
feel that at some point all of this is
going to be impact on the awareness of
the American people and at that time
there will be a in attack on the CIA I
considered myself a good smile I would
be given a name of a student or a
professor or a teaching assistant and I
would try to develop a relationship with
this person and try to get them to say
to me statements concerning the u.s.
involvement in Vietnam in Southeast Asia
I was to infiltrate student groups to
get copies of propaganda meeting times
protests posters this kind of thing your
friendly spy on campus
[Music]
the excitement initially came when I was
offered the job and told that I was very
special and I played to my patriotism my
eagle my manhood the whole thing I was
30 years ago almost this month that I
was a senior on the Iowa State
University campus ready to get my
aerospace engineering degree and
wondering what I was going to do in
light of the nation's deepening
involvement in the quagmire
there were anti-war demonstrations on
college campuses and entities from Los
Angeles to Washington draft card burning
became common and the chant of hell no
we won't go was the theme of the protest
generation it was then that the CIA
appeared on campus and they began their
largest illegal domestic operation in
history called chaos the FBI and Hoover
thought us college student demonstration
against the Vietnam War is being
manipulated and funded from abroad
President Johnson didn't believe it so
he actually authorized the CIA to start
an illegal covert operation inside the
country and I became the eyes and ears
of the see I am the Iowa State
University campus Iowa State University
the opportunities are here I initiated
files on students of my own interest
even without the CIA's knowledge there
was this young lady who caught my eye on
campus and I tried to date her and she
refused so I initiated a file on her and
that was personally for my own benefit I
did that for my senior year and on
graduation I thought my my
responsibilities the agency would end
when I went to work for McDonnell
Douglas in st. Louis but it didn't work
out that way and eventually I was
assigned to Canada I did that for my
senior year and on graduation I thought
my my responsibilities the agency would
end when I went to work for McDonnell
Douglas in st. Louis but it didn't work
out that way and eventually I was
assigned to Canada now poising as a anti
Vietnam War
engineer the agency knew that Fidel had
gone around the island and built all
these small dams he actually wanted two
growing seasons a year needed somebody
to seed the clouds so it would rain and
he could store the Walker and that's
where my expertise was having been an
amateur rocket ear and an aerospace
engineer and all of this good stuff
the Cubans were duped into believing
that credentials I presented there
really was no other option of getting an
American down there after the October
Crisis of 1962 Kennedy said that we
would never physically invade the island
if Khrushchev would remove the ballistic
missiles so therefore the United States
was frozen into a policy of trying to
bring Castro down from within which
meant disrupting the average lifestyle
of the Cuban citizen doing whatever we
could to sabotage the economy to
discredit the revolution one way of
doing that of course was to try to
control the amount of food coming in to
into Havana for distribution to the
public and if we could do that by
puncturing tires on a truck loaded with
tomatoes for the market or if we could
cause a truckload of whatever onions or
fresh fruit or meat to become putrid or
be stolen or contaminated on the way
into town we would do that and I
remember one particular instance a brand
new secondary school that had opened up
in the countryside was going to receive
its weeks supply of fresh milk and we
bribed the driver of the truck we knew
where he stopped to have breakfast on
his route we wanted him to take a few
extra minutes so we could put cement
powder into the milk
[Music]
we declared war on school children that
shouldn't be the policy of the United
States government
you don't win friends and influence
people that way declaring war on
children and innocent civilians a big
mistake but the US government orders it
and participates in it
and the CIA's goal eventually was to
increase this frustration level to a
point where there would be a civil
revolution within Cuba to bring him down
I think from almost the outset I had
reservations about what I was doing in
Cuba
and that's because just in general I
didn't enjoy harming people oh and I
didn't nor the Cubans at the time so I
would rationalize myself that well this
was in the best interests of my country
but as I got to know the Cuban people
personally and ended up getting married
to a Cuban I started to change my
attitude to him very quickly I think the
most frightening thing that ever
happened to me in Havana was when the
Cuban counterintelligence people
actually decided they had enough and
they came to my house and detained me
and eventually I was arrested and
accused of espionage even given a fake
firing squad and in spite of all the
training I had and all the instruction
that had that you don't get shot you
maybe tried to be a lot of publicity you
maybe even be in prison for a while but
eventually you'll be released and
exchanged you forget that when you're
actually facing those rifle burns and
you're in a foreign country with no
diplomatic mission and nobody there to
speak for you your knees tremble and you
lose bladder control very scary
hindsight is something I think we all
enjoy and I just wish we could we could
switch it around and use it as foresight
but in hindsight yeah if I could go back
and change things I'd have to go back 30
years to 1965 in my senior year and
refused the offer that was made to me by
the CIA and take my chances with the
draft and have pursued my engineering
career it certainly would have been a
better life and than what I had I
wouldn't have the memories that I have
of the things that I've done to people
in countries and all of it in the name
of the United States and under its flag
for many years I didn't even tell my
friends I worked for CIA because I was
embarrassed it's colored in my life it
always well it's like a shadow that
falls over my life all the time it's I
still if I say anything against them I
turn around wondering if I'm being
followed
[Music]
I never even thought of joining the CIA
first of all I thought I probably
couldn't get in because it was
considered the Cadillac of
government agencies and they mostly
hired from ebony colleges and I was just
out of high school went right to work
for Veterans Administration and actually
it was a the typewriter repairman keep
and prepare my typewriter one day and he
said you know you shouldn't be working
here you should be working at her a
nicer place they test you a lot
huge testing I mean one when you put
into this personnel pool there's um
there probably two or three weeks of
tests where it's all day long every
single day and their IQ test or
personality tests the questions that
bothered me the most was when I took the
polygraph test and at and the polygraph
test they asked you such incredibly
personal questions for instance he asked
me if I was a virgin and I was 18 and I
thought what business is it of theirs
whether I am or not and I was a rather
embarrassed to tell them that I was
because I don't think any of my
girlfriend's were I was raised very
strict there were very few women at CIA
who were other than secretaries it was
very sexist it was it was the male
establishment the white male
establishment I asked a couple of times
why it was that there were no blacks
there and why there are no gay people
there although they didn't call them
gays in that time in those days I think
they call them queers in those days and
and they said because homosexuals could
not be cleared because they could be
blackmailed
they said that blacks couldn't be
cleared because blacks just weren't they
were just still too primitive there just
weren't usually smart enough and they
didn't have the kind of background that
white people had I mean I didn't think
that much at the time because it was
like sort of standard operating
procedure
but um when I think about it now I'm
really quite shocked how you probably
didn't he would never get a job for a
black I was assigned as a secretary in
the audio surveillance division there
were experts on listening devices and
and hidden microphones and that sort of
thing I did also very often helped the
the operatives get their the documents
that they needed once in a while I'd
have to make a quick trip to the State
Department to pick up their passports
and sometimes if we couldn't get the
passports in time then I'd have to go
over to graphic arts reproduction
division so that they could Forge one
for them most of them were artists and
there but they were recruited from
prisons because they weren't forgers and
there were master forgers there were
people who knew how to forge money and
you think forged all kinds of things
that's how they made their living and so
there was the FBI would arrest them and
then CIA would come and spring them then
I went to our Technical Services where I
was in charge of finding documents that
were that you don't find in libraries
like oh like where you where you put
explosives on a bridge where's the best
place to put an explosive on a bridge
and and what kind of explosive do you
have to get that goes underwater than
without you know destroying its
effectiveness also I had to fight one
time they wanted me to find to find out
if there was such a thing as as a poison
that was undetectable especially one
that seemed to mimic a heart attack that
would kill someone but it would appear
that they had a heart attack I did find
such a thing
does this pistol fire the dart yes it
does chairman and a special one was
developed which potentially would be
able to enter the target without
perception the the poison was frozen
into some sort of dart and then it was
shot at very high speed and to the
person so at when it reached the person
it would melt inside them and the only
thing would be like one little tiny red
dot on their body which is hard to
detect
there wouldn't be a needle left or
anything like that in the person but
also the dachshund itself would not
appear in the autopsy yes so that there
was no no way of perceiving that the
target was him I think the first time
that I seriously questioned anything
there was more than I just couldn't take
it anymore was of when I came across
this document it was it was it was eyes
only there was to my boss but he only
had one hand and a hook on the other
hand so I always opened all of his
maleness packages and so forth and this
one he wasn't in the office I opened it
and I read it it said eyes only I wanted
to read it because I wasn't supposed to
probably and it was a report about a
mission where they had blown up a bridge
and Asia somewhere and they had killed a
number of women and children who were on
their way to market and that morning
[Music]
it was reported as though they were
really proud of mission accomplished
that one bothered me a lot when my boss
came in I gave him his mail and I
mentioned this and I said this is wrong
these women hadn't done anything these
children didn't deserve to die why did
we do that and he said it's uh that's
the fortunes of war and I said but we're
not at war we're certainly not at war in
that country why did we do that I don't
understand it and he said while you're
very young when you get older you'll
understand those things I think probably
all of us became addicted to the danger
to the intrigue it was um it was living
a fantasy it was actually living a
fantasy and being on the inside and it
was very hard to leave even though I
felt that they did wrong and I would
never ever work for an agency like that
now because I realized that I wasn't it
wasn't because I was a child I was so
young it was because it was wrong but at
the time it was really exciting after
that there was no other job I could have
ever again in my life that would be that
exciting I knew that during this period
in Ecuador I got involved in all these
different types of operations I was
running around here running around there
working with the police intelligence and
military intelligence falsifying
documents as provocations to get people
landed in jail running a surveillance
team which was a team that would follow
people around the streets they had radio
communications up with vans it was very
exciting at first and you had at 25 26
27 years old you had this sense of power
in which is intoxicating really for such
a young person
[Music]
my motivation was partly the youthful
romantic aspect of it which was the idea
of secret work of of being abroad in
strange cultures and communities and but
patriotism was also a very strong
motivation it was a period in which we
still had to do compulsory military
service and the draft was breathing down
my neck and I had to do it one way or
another and the CIA I was sent down to
Quito Ecuador where I work for a period
of three years
[Music]
poverty breeds anger and despair anger
and despair are ingredients of violence
of lawlessness of revolt and our job was
to squelch or impede the influence of
the Cuban Revolution throughout Latin
America because the Cuban Revolution had
such an impact in Latin America and in
practically every latin-american country
there were people who went into on
struggle at that period to emulate the
Cubans hoping that they too could
overthrow the traditional ruling power
structure in their countries in which
very few families controlled the land
and the wealth and that meant that a
very large proportion of the population
was marginalized they didn't count here
as in so many other places on this
troubled earth can be seen the
conditions that give rise to conflict to
riot and revolution here can be found
the familiar challenges that threaten
the future of us all we are here when I
was working in Uruguay it was a
complicated period of the trade unions
of students were out in the streets all
the time and there was a state of siege
imposed and we wanted to stop these
lightning demonstrations which were
making our police look bad and so one of
the leaders of these squads of the
Communist Party was Oscar boneau Dee and
I had him arrested it was supposed to be
simply preventive detention but on that
Sunday morning I knew he was under
arrest and I didn't know what was
happening but we were sitting in the
room as the chief of police was reading
a document I had written to attribute
all this violence and unrest and strikes
to the Soviets it was false but it was
very credible the way I had written and
then the sounds began to come through
the walls and it was low moaning sound
and and I wanted to myself as it got
louder and louder and the chief was
embarrassed whether it was the guy who
was named I had given and he told me
story that yes it was borne out in that
one of the most sadistic of the
high-level police officers had ordered
his
interrogation and torture that's not a
morning but it was horrible sound I I'll
never forget it it's just awful to hear
that moaning and groaning and screaming
up coming through the walls I began to
question the work the initial thrill of
being on the inside of having the secret
power of of knowing things that
individuals and governments try to hide
had faded by the time I got to Mexico I
already had all the political reasons to
leave I met an American woman who had
lived in Mexico for many years this
would be October of 1967 and at dinner
she suddenly went into a tirade about
Che Guevara because he had just been
killed he'd been captured and executed
it was just out in the papers that day
and so she was furious she went into
this tirade about this horrible stinking
CIA that had murdered the best hope for
Latin America in generations and she was
she loved Che Guevara started as the
most wonderful man in the world and I
was in love with her and she was in love
with me and I thought to myself as I
said there Tennessee Wow what am I gonna
do and so the upshot is that she was the
personal factor who which led me
actually to say I'm quitting now
the case against the CIA has always
lacked information on how precisely its
officers set about their covert action
for the beatty now living in Cornwall
was such an officer and his diary to be
published by penguin in the next few
weeks gives his version of what life is
really like inside the agency he names
every officer and agent he's ever met
and describes the CIA man's work in
daily detail why should I be delicate
with them I don't expect any any any
quarter in return because this is part
of the conflict that's going on in the
world right now
the CIA is enforcing American economic
exploitation and people are dying and
people are starving because of this
system in actual fact what had happened
is Henry Kissinger had intervened
secretly with the British government to
force them or pressure them to deport me
and to cause me all these problems
because not only was I deported from
Great Britain but that was followed by a
kidnapping and deportation by forced
from France plus Holland and Italy and
Germany and Norway would not let me in
and so over a two-year period they were
constantly pressuring these governments
which had no propagation for me at all
so they tried very hard during a period
of time in the 1970s to stop my work but
I just continued got on with my life and
achieve stability in Germany and now in
the last seven or eight years I've been
coming frequently to the United States
and I think I've been in practically
every nook and cranny of the country and
hundreds of meetings are political
rallies and university lectures over
these last eight years when I was a kid
the American flag was something was
absolutely marvelous
whenever the American flag went by in a
parade we took our hats off put our
hands over our hearts we really felt it
because this is this is the symbol of
the United States and the way United
States should behave we have to have
something like that in order to hold
ourselves together
you
[Music]
in those days that the Depression was
really seriously affecting everybody and
me too too long about that time I began
to travel to different shooting matches
in the Midwest and I finally got through
shooting against the US Marine Corps
team well and I used to beat the Marines
every one of them and the captain of the
marine team came to me said son he said
have you ever thought about enlisted in
the Marine Corps and I said no captain I
never have and he said he said well I
tell you what if you would enlist in the
Marine Corps when you finish the
training in Parris Island
I'll see that you're assigned to the
Marine Corps rifle and pistol team TC oh
boy I'll be keen they get paid for
shooting I was scared stiff of course
and we went up there and when in the
common out of a records office so we
said this young man is a specialist in
marksmanship training and we would like
to Commission him in the Marine Corps I
said commission oh my god it says we've
never done anything like that before the
Commission management civilian life he
said well sir I think this is time to do
it he scratched he said you said think
you're right young man you're a second
lieutenant of Marine Corps oh my god
this is terrible
I went through World War two as an
officer Marine Corps came back and one
night doorbell rang and I wouldn't heard
that Natalie dressed man in this is this
nice suit and snap burn happen he said
may I come in and I said well I think
you better identify yourself who are you
well they said I know who you are and
you've been recommended very highly -
what - our organization said what's your
organization well I'm not at liberty to
tell you what the organization is
nothing it's crazy it's although he got
someone come on in he was a little guy
and I thought I could handle him pretty
well
and they said you have been you have
been accepted in our organization and we
want you to go to Central America and I
said what Central America come on
so that's how that's how it happened and
I joined this this group that went to
Central America and I really I found out
that I was I was supposed to be in
charge of overthrowing a government in
Central American you know that doesn't
sound right and I said what one second
well we don't want to go into too deeply
here yet I said well I think made you
better forget the whole thing
oh no no no no it's not very important
so finally he didn't let out that we
were going to overthrow the government
of Guatemala
well now I had been to Guatemala before
several years before that because I was
a member of the u.s. Olympic team and we
were requested to go down and help
organize the games the Central American
and Caribbean Games
now sorry nice living symbols of the
peace and friendship among the 22
nations represented so I knew people
down there I knew with a gentleman by
the name of our bands and the CIA was
gonna happen over through all these
friends of mine
well they explained to me that this is
extremely important to the security of
the United States when they pull that
you know there's something wrong because
the United States is so secure and
nobody's ever gonna do anything to it
anyway so I said well okay I'll do it
and we organized a group of dissident
Guatemalans armed them and train them
minimally and send them off up to to
overthrow the government these rebel
troops backed by air power have
compelled the ousting of what Amala
communist regime and have won a
ceasefire from government forces that
read rule in Guatemala is over is grimly
symbolized by the determination of the
insurgents themselves and by this effigy
of ex-president are Benz who fled the
country the sign reads go back to Russia
they know there were some people during
the Arbenz regime that said that there
was the question as to whether it was
truly a communist regime and as to
whether it was controlled by Moscow we
have here the proof that there was no
question whatever those of the Truman
right controls all the Communists here
in Guatemala so in other words the
ardennes regime was not a Guatemalan
government it was a foreign government
controls on five borders
what happened was that they went up
there and caused great bloodshed and
great damage which has never been
corrected even to this day that started
the whole thing in Guatemala and what
we're having all this trouble today
[Music]
the only thing that can be done of
course this do to work with our Congress
because everything that happens in Latin
America or anyplace else in the world
begins in our Congress now look are you
in favor of killing somebody that you
don't know are you favor torturing
somebody in your favor of locking people
up in dungeons and things are you freely
in favor of that because I don't think
you are and I think I can get that
across pretty well if I get a chance to
talk to him like that I feel that
because of the problems that I went
through the realizations that I came to
the efforts that I've taken to counter
people may call it this monster then I
am contributing so much now that I could
not have contributed that I can't go any
agency there's no way I can make amends
but certainly helping in this effort to
expose the abuses of our intelligence
services perhaps in some small way we'll
all pay that debt
[Music]
in an organization that celebrates
loyalty and secrecy the public
confessions of these former agents have
been hard to swallow but as revelations
of the agency's failures and deceit
pilot the courage to speak out has
spread from one agent to another job
promised that I will do as much as I can
for peace in Latin America thank you
very much a number of us have organized
this group of former US intelligence
people and we are very serious because
we have and but because of the
experience we have we believe that we
should have a certain amount of
influence in the Congress and in the
government
Frank Church the late chairman of the
Senate Select Committee to study
intelligence concluded that covert
operations was really a semantic
disguise for blackmail
sabotage SAS nation whatever United
States wanted to do to influence other
countries to its will in small ways
Congress has pressured the CIA to reform
itself hundreds of individuals who
smuggle drugs and tortured and murdered
in the name of the agency have recently
been purged from its payroll and
oversight committees have been created
to monitor the agency's activities one
of my biggest jobs was to get the CIA to
understand that they could do their
secret operations at the same time that
we were keeping the Congress adequately
informed wasn't it easy to overcome that
dichotomy because the CIA people just
assumed that if you told the Congress it
was all over the newspapers the next day
wasn't really the case but is similarly
true that many of these congressmen and
Senators become members of a covert Club
if they're giving it and given access to
the information
then they consider themselves to be on
the inside they don't share it so all
too often they are co-opted into a
system of secrecy that contributes to a
major intelligence scandal every five or
six years or so the great problem or the
Central Intelligence Agency today is
that it completely missed the end of the
Cold War but twenty-five years if
reported everything there was to know
about the Soviet Union accepting the
fact that it was collapsing the great
question is whether we should abolish it
we should abolish it weapons
intelligence defense political
intelligence put it with the State
Department which is where the president
should be turning for that kind of
advice and economic information role
that's open and public the world over
but until the American public know how
much the CIA receives in money every
year and know how many people they have
and what they're doing all over the
world the CIA will continue to bumble
along at some sort of romantic role that
they've scribed under themselves and the
American people attribute to the CIA
because we know nothing about it
I believe that's what is happening right
now is that there is more and more
information about CIA coming out with
Freedom of Information and some of the
things that have been released
Declassified we're finding out a lot of
things and I think that the American
people are going to say no we can't do
that
that is it's it's immoral and since it's
wrong it's against everything I believe
in it's not patriotic it's not good it's
not good even for our country it
certainly is not good for the world